Good day, brothers and sisters.
We will begin this convention session
by enjoying another music video presentation.
This video highlights the power that faith can have in our lives.
Please enjoy the video.
Our opening song expresses our joy and practicing true worship.
Let's sing song number 24 entitled Come to Jehovah's Mountain.
That song number 24.
Genuine faith moves us to action.
This could be seen in the lives of our brothers and sisters Earthwide.
Please enjoy the following video that features experiences from six different regions.
Let's see how our brothers are showing faith.
They defeated kingdoms.
Brought about righteousness.
Obtained promises.
Stopped the mouths of lions.
Quenched the force of fire.
Escaped the edge of the sword.
From a weak state were made powerful.
Became mighty in war, routed invading armies.
Faith in Jehovah has allowed ordinary people to do extraordinary things.
This kind of faith is still active today
and still has the power to help us through any difficulty.
So let's travel across the globe
and see how deep reliance on Jehovah has helped many overcome their unique trials.
As we visit each land, we'll enjoy a story of faith
shared both from the perspective of close friends as well as the individuals involved.
Now to our first destination.
South Africa is full of contrasts and diversity.
Big modern cities mix with poorer remote areas.
For many volunteers in Kingdom Hall construction,
this presents wonderful opportunities
but also unique challenges that require faith in Jehovah.
An example of that is our young friend, Nathla.
My wife and I really appreciated the faith she showed to make herself available
and to keep her joy in her assignment.
I'm the only Jehovah's Witness in my family.
What my mother desired the most for me was to grow up,
go to college, and in time, get a high-paying job.
My congregation was busy building a Kingdom Hall.
So I would sometimes also go to help.
I wanted to see and feel the joy that those brothers were having building Kingdom Halls.
My mom didn't like it when she heard that I was going to help with Kingdom Hall construction.
She felt that I was wasting my time.
When I arrived on site, everything I did was for the first time.
I didn't have skills and I had never done this work before.
It is not easy.
Sometimes I get tired, mentally exhausted, and even physically exhausted.
Sometimes it's difficult to even read the Bible.
I just want to wash up and go to sleep.
It was important for Nathla to find her spiritual balance
because her spirituality was more important than working hard on site.
I realized that I needed to be really determined
because my spirituality was not the same as before.
I saw that I needed to make a change.
I made it a priority to read the Bible first
and to think about the things I read.
I also made sure that I was regular in going out in the ministry.
Prayer helped a lot because prayer is the best way for me to tell Jehovah things that concern me.
I have seen from myself how Jehovah God has sustained me.
We've seen that she is much more balanced.
My mom would phone and ask, Nathla, how is the project going?
And then she would say, if this makes you happy, then I am also happy.
At first, I had my fears, but faith made me confident
that Jehovah God would always be there to support me in everything I do.
Canada is a diverse country, both the landscape
and because of immigration, the people in their languages.
In order to share Bible truth with these ones,
many brothers are learning a new language like my friend Shaquille.
When Shaquille got invited to Bethel, I had the privilege of serving at Canada branch at the time.
So it was such a pleasure to see this young man who had all these wonderful goals
and to see one by one Jehovah opening those doors to him.
He had made a promise to Jehovah as a young person.
I want to help those that don't have anyone to help them.
Jehovah saw good in me and he invested in me and he was very patient with me
and I saw it through every brother and sister who sincerely reached out to help me.
I'm meditating on Jehovah's qualities and you want to imitate him.
You want to show the kindness that he's shown towards you towards others.
So in foreign language, I feel like there's a giant opportunity to do that.
I started to learn Punjabi and I never regretted it.
It changed my service to Jehovah.
There was a time period in my Bethel service when I was really, really sick
and it was a kind of sickness where I didn't know why it was happening.
No doctor could tell me why it was happening.
It affected my physical appearance and it seemed like torment throughout each and every day.
A lot of times I would have rather not been seen.
So serving in foreign language now when you're one of the people who spiritually
supposed to be strengthening others, you're going through a hard time yourself.
That was a massive challenge for me.
I think all of his friends just really appreciated the faith that he had to overcome that
and even though it was a very low point in his life, he really hung on to Jehovah.
If I'm in this assignment and I've seen that Jehovah's bless me,
what would lead me to conclude that he's going to stop?
He couldn't sleep. He just couldn't continue at Bethel either.
I had left Bethel but still my health was decreasing and it was getting really bad.
And it was getting to the point that doctors expressed concern about maybe
an organ failing and things like that.
But they did not give me any way out. I had no way out.
He kept making progress even though there was certainly some really difficult times for him.
I had to take a realistic approach towards my new situation
and I had to figure out how am I going to put Kingdom interest first
while materially taking care of myself and hopefully figuring out why I'm sick
and if I can do anything about it.
In the end he decided to stick with foreign language
and something I really learned from Shaquille is that he really took the scriptures
and made it personal. He would read it as if he was the person in the scriptures
and he would meditate on it and now he could see how even though he didn't know the answers
Jehovah would help him through his difficult times.
So what am I going to do? I'm going to live up to what I promised to Jehovah.
Today he serves with his wife in the Punjabi field.
He's a loving shepherd and he even instructs Punjabi language classes.
In Indonesia people work very hard.
They seek stability through a secure job.
This can have a powerful influence on the brothers and sisters
because they may feel that they can't expand their ministry.
When I met the Japanese girls they were working toward Pioneer service.
When they started I asked them,
would you like to be used more fully by Jehovah?
I was confused.
We felt that the Pioneer service itself was already a big accomplishment.
I encouraged them to think about the school for Kingdom Evangelizers.
I had never imagined applying for SKE.
It was tempting.
I wanted to be used by Jehovah,
but what would happen to us after graduation?
Where would we be assigned?
What would be our assignment?
We needed more faith,
so we prayed a lot about that.
Jehovah answered my prayers through the brothers and sisters in the congregation.
Marta had a prestigious job.
She was even being offered many scholarships so that she could pursue higher education
and further advance her career.
The brothers and sisters never criticized Marta's work choice.
Rather they showed us the joys of serving Jehovah more fully.
When I was still deciding what to do,
some of them asked me about my spiritual goals,
and what I could see myself doing,
thinking about such questions,
convinced me to choose SKE.
They were invited to attend the school.
They had to leave their jobs, their house,
and the comforts of the place and city where they lived.
They were assigned to a small congregation.
They had to pray even more to ask Jehovah God for guidance and direction.
Now they're serving in the traveling work, caring for a certain.
We are fully convinced that it was not due to any greatness on our part,
but because of Jehovah's help.
If we want to be used by Jehovah,
and if we want to serve him,
Jehovah can use us in many different ways.
BG is a beautiful place.
However, one thing that is common here is poverty.
That is the situation sister Baccata faces.
My husband was a hard worker.
While we were out in the water,
he cried out from the mangroves.
When I went and found him,
I knew that it was a stroke.
I had to take on both roles as husband and wife.
I would farm.
I would fish.
It was a difficult life.
One day, a sister was sick.
Even though sister Baccata faced challenges,
if there was any washing or cleaning needed for the sick sister,
she was happy to go and help with that too.
I think back to when a cyclone hit Kadavu, cyclone Kenny.
I was scared by the damage it did to our house.
Our outdoor kitchen was blown off.
When I heard about the things that happened to the brothers,
I felt so sorry for them.
Their roofs were blown away,
and the walls had fallen down.
Just think about what sister Baccata did.
She had 20 Fiji and dollars.
That is the only money she had.
But she decided to give all of that to the brothers.
I didn't have any other way to help them.
Jehovah is the God of love.
Like it says at first on four and eight,
his main quality is love.
Because of that love,
I gave the money from the bottom of my heart.
I learned that even though we are poor,
we can still be generous to sister brothers.
The more I gave,
the more Jehovah gave back to me.
Till today,
we've always had what we've needed.
And through,
like many places around the world,
our brothers and sisters need to work hard.
Benjamin and Doris have to make good use of their resources
in order to provide for their family.
We want to give our children a spiritual heritage.
We want them to be able to serve Jehovah
by watching how we are doing it.
We watch a lot of videos that help us.
We often remember the video about Abilio Anula.
They also had three children.
They moved to another place
and grew up in a very nice spiritual atmosphere.
They are serving Jehovah now as adults.
So we asked ourselves,
could we move to another place where the need is great?
It takes faith to go to an unfamiliar place.
When video on JW.org that helped us a lot
was about the family from England that moved to Ecuador.
First, they went for one month.
So we said that we should also go as a first.
Going to another country would have been exciting.
It would have been super.
But our economic situation wouldn't allow us to go that far.
We took a trip together with our children
to visit a territory that had a need, called Kalango.
It takes about an hour and a half to get there.
They liked the geography of the area in all the vegetation.
There were many things that captured their attention.
The things that I like in Kalango are playing and preaching.
We were unable to move to the city of Kalango
because of the economic situation that the people face there.
It's hard to get a job there.
So for that reason,
we decided to travel to Kalango Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
And work the other days here in Pachakamak.
We have felt that Jehovah is helping us
because he has made it possible to work here
and the money that we earn in those days
allows us to be with our brothers there.
We needed to know how to keep things simple.
We learned that from the videos on JW.org.
The hard work that they do proves to me
that they really love Jehovah.
They fully trust that Jehovah is our father.
He is the dad.
And we know that dad always comes through for his children.
And that faith is something that greatly motivates them.
The videos on JW.org have given us the push that we needed.
We needed those videos in order to take action
and move to another area.
Across Russia,
our brothers have successfully faced decades of persecution and ban.
The budden chucks, like so many families there,
still face these challenges today.
On June 12, 2018, at 5.30 a.m.,
armed men burst into our home.
They threw my husband to the floor and handcuffed him.
Eventually, they sent my husband
to a pretrial detention facility for 11 months.
It was frightening just imagining certain things.
She didn't find it easy and shed many tears.
I was really worried about how I would care for the children
and how I would fulfill their needs spiritually, emotionally, and physically.
Prayer calmed me down.
Because I wanted, of course, to react very emotionally to everything
to the injustice that we were facing.
When the court hearings were going on,
brothers and sisters would come.
It was such a support, so strengthening.
On September 19, 2019,
the court convicted my husband
and sent him to a prison colony for three and a half years.
In January 2020, a new disaster hit us.
At 1 a.m., our house burned to the ground.
We stood there near the house,
and my son Igor suggested saying a prayer.
I don't remember the prayer, but afterwards I felt calmer.
Then cars started coming to the house.
Our brothers and sisters, I was frozen, shaking from the cold.
They dressed me like a small child.
They brought us hot tea, food, everything of the highest quality.
Just one month after the fire,
when they took my husband to the prison colony,
officers there beat him up.
When I found out about it, it was so hard for me
because I didn't know how to help my husband
or how he was feeling.
Tanya copes with hardships very courageously.
I prayed to Jehovah sometimes all night.
It felt as though Jehovah gave me pain killers to dull my pain.
My husband, Alexey, tries to take care of us.
In the pre-trial detention facility, for example,
each day he wrote letters of encouragement to us,
which we read together as a family.
My dear family, remember the qualities that we need right now,
endurance, courage, calmness, and most importantly, faith.
I like the thought that after winter, summer always comes.
After the night, the day arrives,
and after the darkest days,
there will definitely come a sunny one.
Throughout all these trials,
having a good spiritual schedule
and reading the Bible has given me strength.
Also, we prepare for meetings and participate in the ministry.
I was really afraid to do it.
But this situation has helped me to see Jehovah's support.
I have realized that even in my circumstances,
I can still help others.
We know that Jehovah has already given us his support
and we believe that he will continue to support us.
Their example of courage and steadfast faith
in the face of difficulties and trials
proves that we can also remain faithful.
We too can make Jehovah happy
and continue to serve him without becoming discouraged.
We have learned to trust more in Jehovah
and not to panic when a difficult situation arises.
These difficulties have made me stronger,
helped me to overcome many of the fears I used to have,
and strengthened my faith and my desire to help others.
As we have seen,
our brothers, the world,
over continued to show strong faith.
How did they do it?
A regular study of God's Word,
time spent in deep meditation,
and seeking His direction in prayer.
What did this allow them to accomplish?
Through faith,
our brothers handled theocratic building assignments,
learned foreign languages,
attended theocratic schools.
Though poor, remain generous,
served where the need was great,
and preached despite persecution.
And Jehovah knows we can do the same.
Yes, if we let faith move us to action,
those actions will strengthen our faith.
Those experiences warm our hearts and move us
to imitate the faith of our brothers and sisters.
What are some ways in which we can do so?
The following symposium will discuss five opportunities
to show our faith,
and it will help us to overcome obstacles
that could hold us back.
Each speaker will introduce the one to follow.
Brother David Schaeffer,
a helper to the teaching committee,
will present the first talk entitled,
Enter the Door to Activity in Faith,
Learn a New Language.
Can you see faith?
Turn with me please to Mark 2,
and notice what the Bible says about this.
In this account, Jesus is teaching
in a crowded house in Copernium,
and Mark 2, 2 through 5, tells us,
and so many gathered that there was no more room,
not even around the door,
and he began to speak the word to them.
And they brought him a paralytic carried by four men,
but they could not bring him right to Jesus
because of the crowd.
So they removed the roof above Jesus.
And after digging and opening,
they lowered the stretcher on which the paralytic was lying.
When Jesus saw their faith,
he said to the paralytic,
child, your sins are forgiven.
So yes, faith can be seen.
It's seen in the way we act.
Like other invisible things,
faith is measured by its effects.
In fact, James 226 says that faith
without works is dead.
The question is, can others see my faith?
What effect is my faith producing in me?
A turn with me pleased to 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
One effect that faith has on people
is that it moves them to expand their activity
in Kingdom service.
And notice how the Apostle Paul expressed this
at 1 Corinthians 16-9.
Because a large door that leads to activity
has been open to me, but there are many composers.
Paul took advantage of such opportunities to show his faith.
Has Jehovah opened a door to activity for you?
In this symposium, we're going to discuss five ways
in which a temporary opportunity leading to great activity
and making disciples might present itself.
This could be in the form of learning a new language,
moving where the need is greater,
applying to attend the school for Kingdom evangelizers,
assisting with a Theocratic building project
or donating generously to support the Kingdom work.
Now, why is faith needed to seize such opportunities?
And what blessings do we receive when we do?
First, why is faith needed to learn a new language
in order to make disciples?
A turn with me pleased to Zechariah chapter 8.
A Zechariah chapter 8.
It takes faith to discern that current events
are fulfilling Bible prophecy.
It takes faith to understand how we can act in harmony
with God's purpose as revealed in that prophecy.
A Zechariah 8.22 says,
And many peoples and mighty nations
will come to seek Jehovah of armies in Jerusalem
and to beg for the favor of Jehovah.
And verse 23 says,
This is what Jehovah of army says.
In those days, ten men out of all the languages of the nations
will take hold.
Yes, they will take firm hold of the robe of a Jew
saying, We want to go with you
for we have heard that God is with you people.
Ten men, people who recognize
that the only way to gain Jehovah's approval
is to associate with those who already have it.
The Jew also referred to here as
you people, which people.
Obviously not the people who refuse to pronounce God's name
or those who remove it all together
from their Bible translations.
No, this refers to those who worship Jehovah by name.
Spirit-annoyed Christians, the Israel of God,
referred to at Galatians 6.16.
And because ten can represent earthly completeness,
the ten men represent all men and women
who have the hope of living forever on earth.
Now notice that they come not simply from all the nations,
but from all the languages of the nations
in order to learn Jehovah's requirements.
Now how will they hear the voice of the Jew
in their language?
That might just be your door to activity.
Now some might hesitate to learn a new language.
Perhaps they hold back because of the time
and energy that are required.
Others feel that they lack the ability.
That's true that before making any decision,
we need to calculate the expense.
The question here is one of faith.
Can the God who gave ability to bezelil,
who made the sun stand still for Joshua,
who gave power to Sampson also give you
the ability, time, and energy to help those
who are begging for the favor of Jehovah?
Remember Matthew 1720,
if you have faith the size of a mustard grain,
nothing will be impossible for you.
And according to Philippians 2.13,
Holy Spirit can give us even the desire
to preach to those who speak another language.
Is that Spirit drawing you now?
Remember too that through his organization,
Jehovah provides much help for those
who are learning a new language.
JW.org contains reading material,
audio recordings, and videos,
and more languages than any other website.
Then we have the JW Language app,
and language classes arranged by the branch office.
When faith motivates us to make sacrifices
to serve Jehovah,
he will help us to succeed,
and he will reward us with many blessings.
For instance,
a couple in their 60s kept finding Chinese people
who accepted their invitations to attend
congregation meetings.
So they decided to learn Chinese,
and within 10 years they studied
with 112 Chinese people.
Okay, but with so many languages,
how do I know which language to start learning?
Zechariah 822.
Who is begging for the favor of Jehovah?
You can learn about the needs in your area
by consulting with the elders and the circuit overseer.
In the following video,
note how one couple responds to a need in the field.
Oh, honestly, you shouldn't have.
You're going to need it.
Gabriel leaving to serve where the need is greater.
Made us feel like we missed the chance
to expand our ministry.
Why don't we start now?
We're not getting any younger.
Yeah, we could ask the circuit overseer
for our vice on his next visit.
But I'm worried he's going to say
we should join the new language group.
It's a big need in our socket.
We've never felt like the right people
to serve in a foreign language.
Brother Lindstrom shared Zechariah 823 with us,
which helped us to see how we could have a hand
in helping men out of all the languages of the nations.
Learn about Jehovah.
Learning was a struggle at first.
But with Jehovah's help, we made progress.
Slowly, even though the language was a challenge,
loving our new family was not.
Shukar Sabai.
Shukar Sabai?
My son, Tanoh Elliot.
Dalai Jani Romani.
Oh, yeah, Janava.
Sari Siklin, Marijub.
It's Vinny.
Moment.
I mean, don't.
I don't understand.
Morate, sonny.
I'll cover.
Say again what you say.
I'm Shukar Sabai.
I'm off Tanoh Elliot.
He's the Verunava.
Oh, Shasusus is the winner.
Come on, Drei.
Okay.
Oh, thank you.
It's true.
We aren't getting any younger.
And that's why we're so glad we took the chance
to expand our ministry.
Did you notice how Elliot and Karin showed faith
and how they were blessed?
They talked to their circuit overseer,
who revealed a big need in a foreign language group
in their circuit.
He then showed them Zechariah 823.
They read that scripture again later,
and they prayed about it together,
and then came the measurable effect of their faith.
They put forth great efforts to learn.
Then with humility and courage,
they used their new language skills at the meetings
and in the ministry.
And they were able to help those who were begging
for the favor of Jehovah.
That's how it works.
Simple?
No.
But if we invest the time and effort to learn a new language
in order to do more for Jehovah,
we can be confident that Jehovah will bless us
with a rewarding ministry.
As a couple from Britain said,
the ministry in the foreign language field
is one of the most exciting we've experienced
during our 40 years of kingdom service.
Why did they do it?
Because people who are seeking Jehovah
need to hear his requirements for life
in words they can understand.
A during a meeting held in Vietnamese,
a man stood up and said,
with tears in his eyes,
thank you.
Thank you for the efforts you are making
to learn my difficult language.
I am so grateful to learn many wonderful things
from the Bible in my old age.
After attending a circuit assembly in his native Albanian,
a man in his 70s,
living in New York City said,
this is the best day of my life.
He made arrangements that very day
to start studying the Bible
with a pioneer who had learned his language,
and within just a few years,
he began serving as a ministerial servant.
These are blessings for exercising faith.
Faith is measured by the way we act.
Could you enter this door to activity and faith?
Brother Samuel heard a member of the governing body
will now consider the next talk of this symposium.
Enter the door to activity and faith
move to where the need is greater.
Moving to serve for the need for kingdom preachers
is greater can be intimidating.
Before moving, we cannot know all the details
of what our life will be like.
However, the Bible can give us the wisdom
to successfully meet any challenges
we face after moving.
We must put faith in it.
Faith can motivate us to seize opportunities
to serve Jehovah.
Please locate Hebrews 11 to 8 through 10.
Abram's willingness to leave
what was comfortable and familiar
and move to a new land
when he was in his 70s
was a powerful demonstration of faith.
Let's read Hebrews 11, 8 through 10.
By faith, Abraham, when he was called,
obeyed by going out to a place
he was to receive as an inheritance.
He went out, although not knowing where he was going.
By faith, he lived as a foreigner
in the land of the promise
as in a foreign land,
living in tents with Isaac and Jacob,
the airs with him of the very same promise.
For he was awaiting the city having real foundations
whose designer and builder is God.
He didn't even know where he was being assigned.
But he went based on his faith.
He knew that the real life was not back home.
It was not in his new assignment.
He looked for the fulfillment of future promises.
Did Abraham and Sarah face any difficulties along the way?
Yes, they did.
Unexpected circumstances were thrust upon them.
But did Jehovah see them through?
Find Genesis 20 verses 3 through 7.
To protect his life, Abraham called Sarah his sister.
So the king of Euror felt he could take her as his wife.
This was a difficult time for Abraham and Sarah.
Did Jehovah work things out?
Let's read Genesis 20 verses 3 through 7.
Afterward, God came by night to a Bimalak in a dream
and said to him,
Here you are as good as dead because of the woman
whom you have taken since she is married
and belongs to another man.
However, a Bimalak had not gone near her.
So he said, Jehovah,
Will you kill a nation that is really innocent?
Did he not say to me she is my sister
and did she not say he is my brother?
I did this with an honest heart and innocent hands.
Then the true God said to him in the dream,
I know that you did this with an honest heart.
So I held you back from sinning against me.
That is why I did not allow you to touch her.
Now return the man's wife for he is a prophet
and he will make supplication for you
and you will keep living.
But if you are not returning her,
know that you will surely die.
You and all who are yours.
Jehovah will be with us too
if we act in faith to expand our ministry.
We will get through the surprises
and enjoy the rewards of reaching out in this way.
Although we cannot know all the challenges that we may encounter,
we can take practical steps to choose a location
and prepare to make adjustments.
Do you remember Jesus' words at Luke chapter 14, verse 28?
He indicated that a person who wanted to build a tower
would first calculate the expense to see if he has enough to complete it.
That was practical.
And we can do the same when contemplating, relocating to where the need is greater.
We can get a taste of the blessings we will experience
by participating in preaching campaigns organized by the branch office
or working seldom work territory.
Might you have the circumstances to move
or the need is greater?
If you are interested in serving in another land,
do careful research and speak to your congregation elders.
They can forward your letter to the branch office of the country
that interests you.
If you are unable to move to another land,
what is another option?
You can, through your elders,
write to the local branch office for information
about congregations that have a need.
Your circuit overseer can provide information
about nearby congregations that may need help.
In the following video, note how one brother
overcame his fear of serving where the need is greater.
If you told me two years ago
that I'd be moving where the need was greater, I would have laughed.
It all started when they announced a special preaching campaign.
My friend Samuel encouraged me to apply with him.
So, what do you think?
Yeah, no, but you enjoy that.
I know you're going to love it.
That's why I got you a form as well.
We can do this.
I knew I could do more, but I was comfortable.
I like doing things on my own terms.
But really, I was afraid of the unknown.
I needed to examine my heart.
When I read about Abraham's faith at Hebrews 11-8,
it's like the words jumped off the page.
He went out, although not knowing where he was going.
Who better to be in control of my life than Jehovah?
A door was open to me.
I just needed to go through it.
And what I experienced changed my life.
The results of the campaign were incredible.
And the experience pushed me out of my comfort zone.
I saw the ministry in a new way, and I wanted to do more.
So I calculated the cost and worked with my local elders
to write to the branch office.
When I heard back with some suggestions, I prayed about it
and did research before choosing.
There were many unknowns, but I couldn't wait.
It was hard to say goodbye to my friends.
But I was ready for whatever Jehovah had installed me.
Did you notice how faith was shown and what blessings resulted?
The young brother admitted he was in a comfort zone.
Another brother invited him to join in a special preaching campaign.
Our brother was hesitant to reach out.
However, he read about Abraham.
What did he conclude?
He said, who better to control my life than Jehovah?
He thoroughly enjoyed the experience of the special campaign.
It fired him up.
And the next thing we know, he is relocating to another congregation
that needed help.
Although you will need to make sacrifices
and you may face unexpected challenges,
you will gain many blessings,
drawing you ever closer to Jehovah.
There is no need to worry about the good things you may be denied temporarily.
Jehovah knows what you presently need
and will supply it to you on time.
Luke 12, 31, advises,
keep seeking God's kingdom
and all the things you need will be added to you.
As a single person or as a family,
consider if you can move to where the need is greater.
Brother Mark Numer, a helper to the teaching committee,
will now consider the next talk of this symposium.
Enter the door to activity and faith,
a plan for the school for a kingdom evangelizers.
Proverbs chapter 10 verse 22 states,
it is the blessing of Jehovah that makes rich and he adds no pain with it.
Jehovah blesses those he loves with gifts of divine approval,
guidance and spiritual prosperity.
And when we enter a door of kingdom activity and faith,
we are putting ourselves in line for a rich blessing from Jehovah.
One of those doors is this school for kingdom evangelizers.
Now, what just came to your mind when you heard that school?
Did you think, well, that's a great school,
if you have special circumstances to apply for it,
or I'm too old for that, or I'm too young for that.
I'm already serving with the need is great.
I'm needed here.
They could send me anywhere after the school
and I'm not really comfortable with that.
Those are honest feelings and understandable.
But we want to be careful that feelings don't turn into stumbling stones
that would prevent us from receiving a blessing from Jehovah.
Let's use Timothy as an example of one who entered a door of kingdom activity
and received Jehovah's rich blessing.
Timothy received a personal invitation from the Apostle Paul
to expand his ministry.
At first glance, the two men probably looked nothing alike,
so imagine that scene.
Paul was older, a man of experience.
Timothy was young probably in his late teens or early 20s.
Paul was bold in his speech, tireless in his ministry,
and resilient to opposition.
Yet on the other hand, the scriptures indicate that young Timothy was perhaps shy,
hesitant, and lacked self-confidence.
What stumbling stones could have existed in Timothy's mind
as he pondered Paul's invitation?
Let's open our Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 3 and read verse 10 and 11,
and we'll find out.
2 Timothy chapter 3, and we're going to read verse 10 and 11.
Now notice that Paul wrote this to Timothy many years later,
but let's see what we can learn, verse 10.
But you have closely followed my teaching, my course of life,
my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance,
the persecutions and sufferings, such as I experienced in now notice,
Antioch, and Iconium, and in Listera.
Now where was Timothy from?
Listera.
The young man likely witnessed how Paul suffered ruthless beatings in Listera
at the hands of opposers.
Can you feel Timothy's possible hesitation as he now looks at Paul,
extending his hand out to him?
Perhaps even eyeing the scars of Paul and Paul says, come with me.
Timothy had to wonder, if I go with you, it's not going to be easy.
Will I suffer as you suffered?
Another possible stumbling stone for Timothy was the fact that he was already
serving in a capable way in the newly formed congregation in Listera,
and was well reported on by the brothers.
And now Paul was asking him to leave it all, including his family and friends.
Timothy could have reasoned, they need me, my mother needs me,
my grandmother needs me here.
Maybe I can join Paul in a few years when I gained more experience.
And perhaps yet another stumbling stone for Timothy could have been the fact that
he did not know where his assignment would take him.
Listera was a small, rustic town secluded in a valley.
He knew the people, the landscape, the food, the language, the culture.
Timothy knew that accompanying Paul met venturing into the unknown.
He had to wonder, and I'm really ready for this.
I have a weak stomach, and it's already feeling weaker just thinking about going with Paul.
Can you see yourself in Timothy?
He no doubt had some real concerns before accepting Paul's offer.
But what did Timothy's faith allow him to see?
Well, let's read again Paul's words at 2 Timothy this time, verse 11,
but verse 11, B, 2 Timothy, chapter 3, verse 11, B.
I endured these persecutions, and now note this,
and the Lord rescued me from them all.
Timothy witnessed first hand how Jehovah rescued and strengthened Paul.
So yes, in faith, Timothy did enter the door of activity,
and he had worked with Paul together for many years.
But think of the blessings he received because of his decision to join Paul.
He observed how Paul navigated through each trial, how Paul kept his inner peace.
Timothy saw not just the inconveniences or the sufferings of Paul,
but he had observed Paul stabilizing joy,
and he witnessed how Jehovah helped him each step of the way.
With Jehovah's help, Timothy stretched beyond his somewhat shy hesitant nature
to reach his full potential as a zealous overseer in support of the truth.
Now in the following video, note what reasoning helped Gabriel decide to apply for the school for Kingdom evangelizers.
At our convention, they had the meeting for the school for Kingdom evangelizers.
My friend Anton asked if I was going to go.
Thank you, Gabriel.
Oh, hey Anton.
Are you coming?
To what?
The ESK meeting.
Oh, no, I wasn't planning on it, but...
All right then.
Yeah, sure. I'll go.
Okay then.
I'll have to wait a second.
I went, but I felt conflicted.
I thought I already have an assignment.
One that I love.
But I didn't fully understand the incredible privilege of attending ESK.
I asked the circuit officer a few more questions,
and it felt like this is it.
It seemed right, and all I had to do was apply online.
But that was months ago.
So what's holding you back?
I feel like Jehovah led me here.
And I've never been happier.
But now another door's opened, and the fear's back.
It doesn't matter how far you've come.
Fear in the unknown could be overwhelming.
Sometimes you need a reminder that Jehovah's leading you in the right direction.
Here's one to keep in mind.
Philippians 4, 13.
Read it.
And just think about how far Jehovah's taking you.
For all things, I have the strength through the one who gives me power.
Jehovah is in control.
What was I so afraid of?
I'm bringing too much.
Well, ESK is for two months.
Oh, you were just delight you too.
Bringing every last thing with you.
Can I leave this with you?
It's been on a few adventures,
but it's still great for travel.
Really? Yeah, please.
Who knows? You might need it sometimes, too.
Did you notice how faith was shown?
Gabriel was in fear of the unknown.
But Philippians 4 and verse 13 touched his heart, stirred his feelings,
and helped him to trust in Jehovah and move forward in faith
and apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
If you choose to enter through the door of SKE,
you will receive specialized training
so that you can be used more fully by Jehovah and his organization.
Remember, it's not a leap of faith
with no idea of how things might turn out.
It is an informed decision
with a guaranteed outcome of blessings from Jehovah.
Will you trust that Jehovah will help you every step of the way?
If so, like Timothy,
you will experience firsthand
how the blessing of Jehovah makes rich.
Brother Robert Lucioni, a helper to the publishing committee,
will now consider the next talk of this symposium.
Enter the door to activity and faith
assist with a Theocratic Building Project.
Would you like to assist with a Theocratic Building Project?
You may see reports regarding branch construction and renovation
or the need for new kingdom halls
and remote translation offices.
And this may cause you to wonder
if you could have a share.
Well, that is a wonderful goal.
Now, as we've considered in this symposium,
it takes faith to do more for Jehovah.
Well, likewise, faith is required
to share in a Theocratic Building Project.
Now, why is that?
Well, generally, there are two concerns.
One, we may lack experience.
We may feel that we do not have construction, design,
engineering, or real estate experience,
and thus we may feel inadequate
to assist with a local design construction or other project.
Or two, we may also realize that to begin assisting,
generally, we do so on a temporary basis.
Therefore, we may have concerns about leaving our job
or our family for a period of time to assist.
Well, if you can relate to those concerns
and note out the example of Nehemiah
will build your faith.
Turn please to Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 2 and 3.
Nehemiah 1, 2 and 3.
At that time, Haneinai, one of my brothers,
arrived with other men from Judah,
and I asked him about the remaining Jews
who had escaped the captivity and also about Jerusalem.
They replied, those remaining there in the province
who have survived the captivity are in a terrible situation
and in disgrace, the walls of Jerusalem are broken down
and its gates have been burned with fire.
Nehemiah here is presented with a knee.
What would he do?
Would he say, oh, I hope those skilled brothers
were in that situation one day.
Look at chapter 2 and verse 5.
I then said to the king,
if it pleases the king
and if your servant has found favor with you,
send me to Judah to the city
where my forefathers are buried
so that I may rebuild it.
Yes, Nehemiah was moved.
He wanted to help.
He saw an opportunity
and demonstrated his faith.
He took the initiative.
Now, did it take faith for Nehemiah to take this step?
Well, no doubt it did.
Why do we say that?
Well, first off, what was Nehemiah's work assignment?
Was he the head of the King's construction project?
Was he the leading architect or engineer or city planner?
No.
No, rather, he was the cup bearer to the king.
You can picture him saying,
well, I don't have the experience
to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.
I don't know where to start.
Maybe I best leave that to somebody else.
No, rather, he saw the need.
He had the circumstances to help
and he acted on that need.
At Nehemiah did not let his possible
lack of experience hold him back.
That took faith.
Now, what about the fact that this was only a temporary assignment?
Well, Nehemiah again was willing
to leave his prestigious position
as the cup bearer to the king.
You think about it?
He could have wondered whether his replacement
would take over his position permanently.
Would his nice job be there
when he returned from Jerusalem?
Well, Nehemiah showed faith
that Jehovah had loyal love
and would remember him.
Notice his words in Nehemiah chapter 1 and verse 5.
I said,
Oh, Jehovah, the God of the heavens,
the great and awe-inspiring God,
who keeps his covenant
and shows loyal love to those who love him
and keep his commandments.
Yes, Nehemiah was confident
Jehovah would show loyal love.
Jehovah would work things out.
And what was the result of Nehemiah's faith?
Well, although at first Nehemiah was not known as a builder,
Jehovah used him in a mighty way
to accomplish, as well.
And Nehemiah contributed to the rebuilding
of the walls of Jerusalem
in significant ways.
What's the lesson?
Well, the lesson is we need faith
if we are going to assist
with a Theocratic building project.
Now, primarily, we need brothers and sisters
who have a strong relationship with Jehovah
and a willing spirit.
Those are the qualities we need.
A construction or technical skills can be learned.
And strong faith will give us the confidence
that if we are invited,
Jehovah will make us equal to the task
and help us to develop the skills that are needed.
And faith will also help us to trust
that Jehovah will care for us when our assignment is over.
In the following video,
note how Sarah found the courage to assist
in a Theocratic building project.
When Alenda was invited to work for a few weeks
on the upcoming construction projects,
I was thrilled for their excitement,
quickly turning to anxiety,
because of what I had to do.
I pray to Jehovah for weeks
to give me the strength to have the conversation
with my employer.
All right, Sarah. Come in.
So?
I wanted to, first of all, say,
thank you for taking it.
I began to explain about the construction project
and how I'd been invited to volunteer.
So you want time off
during the busiest time of our year?
Well, yes.
It's your choice, but under no circumstances
will I hold your position.
Suddenly, this beautiful privilege felt like a huge risk.
Was I making my life more complicated by doing this?
I read the account about the people in Nehemiah's day.
Their will in spirit demonstrated faith
and Jerusalem's walls were built by people
who put their heart into the work.
I didn't want to miss out on the opportunity
to save Jehovah in that way.
This is my resignation letter.
I had to have faith that Jehovah
would bless my decision.
I'm not sure what the future holds when I get back,
but I know Jehovah would take care of me.
For now, I'm going to focus on putting my heart into the work.
Can you relate to when Sarah went to meet her employer
or how she struggled with the decision of what to do?
Well, how did Sarah resolve her concerns?
Well, remember she examined the example of Nehemiah and others
and this gave her courage to act.
And as a result, she enjoyed many blessings.
Well, many of our brothers and sisters
have made the same choice.
For example, one couple had to give up their apartment
and resign from their secular employment to help with the project.
Now, they said they did feel some anxiety
as the end of their six-month assignment near.
But they trusted that Jehovah would help them
and help he did.
When they returned, they called their former employer
and not only did he offer them their job back,
but it was at better terms.
And they said that within one week of returning back,
they had found a new apartment.
In another example, the local design construction department
invited a brother to work for a few months on a project.
Now, at the time, he was working full time with a major company.
He had good benefits, a good salary, a company car, housing.
He requested a leave of absence.
They denied his request.
Our brother decided to take the LDC assignment anyway.
He was fired from his job.
So what would he do after he completed his assignment?
Well, he actually was able to find a part-time job
that has allowed him to stay in full-time service.
And now he is a pioneer.
He and his wife are pioneers,
and he's serving as a remote volunteer
for a branch construction project.
And similar stories are repeated over and over.
Jehovah foretold that during these last days
a great crowd would worship him acceptably.
And the fulfillment of that prophecy has created an urgent need
for more kingdom halls, assembly halls,
branch facilities, remote translation offices.
Now, we understand that the pandemic has limited
theocratic building projects to some extent at this time.
However, there is still much work to do now
and on into the future.
So if your health and circumstances permit,
make yourself available.
You can do so by filling out the A19 and DC50 applications.
Your elders can help you to access these on JW.org.
So if assisting with a Theocratic building project
is your goal, you can be confident that you too
will become powerful by faith.
Take that leap.
You will enjoy Jehovah's support
and many, many blessings.
Now, brother Gaius Glocken team,
a helper to the publishing committee
will consider the final talk of this symposium,
enter the door to activity and faith,
set something aside for Jehovah's work.
There is no other organization
that compares to Jehovah's organization.
Everything the organization provides
and helps with is free of charge.
But Jehovah invites all of us to give to him
or contribute our material resources
according to what we personally decide.
Now, why is this giving a matter of faith?
Could it be that we hold back
because one,
we might feel that if we are generous,
we might not have enough for our own needs.
To think this way is understandable.
Life is unpredictable,
and nobody knows what the future holds
and what our material needs might be tomorrow.
Or could it be that we hold back too?
Because we feel that our personal contribution
is so small and therefore insignificant.
Maybe we have very little material
because we live in a poor country.
Or we struggle to cover our expenses for other reasons.
So we see that our giving really depends
on how we connect this with Jehovah.
Our view of Jehovah,
our friendship with Jehovah
needs to influence our actions
and this requires faith.
Therefore, let us briefly look at these two concerns
that might impact our generosity
and how faith can help us.
Now, the first concern was the uncertainty
of our own future needs.
Please let us open our Bible to 1 Corinthians 16.
Here in our theme scripture,
the Apostle Paul,
provides a principle to follow
when we consider donations.
This is 1 Corinthians 16,
and we read verse 2.
On the first day of every week,
each of you should set something aside
according to his own means
so that collections will not take place
when I arrive.
So the Apostle Paul encouraged Christians
to plan ahead to give.
In other words, Paul wanted them
to consider their circumstances
and to decide on a certain contribution amount.
Paul was convinced
that this would not result
in their lacking material necessities.
He himself had experienced
not from Jehovah,
and he knew that God would care for them.
Generous giving would further allow Jehovah
to care for them in a generous way.
Do we now see how planning ahead
is an expression of our faith?
When we do this,
we are putting Jehovah to the test in a good way.
We want to experience how it feels
when Jehovah sees us setting the right priorities
and in turn becomes our protector
and our rewarder.
Dear brothers and sisters,
you are displaying this kind of faith.
Many of you set something aside
so that you can contribute
when you come to the Kingdom Hall.
Others consider their expenses
and their financial means
and they decide to regularly donate electronically.
Even when circumstances have not allowed you
to donate the way you've done in the past,
you still find a way to give your contribution to Jehovah.
Jehovah promised to care for our needs.
Do we really believe that?
If we do,
our faith will help us to give generously.
There was a second concern
that might hold us back from giving generously.
We might consider our circumstances
and feel that the contribution we can make
is so small that it makes no difference.
Do you still have 1 Corinthians 16 verse 2 open?
What did we read there?
Let us read it again.
1 Corinthians 16 verse 2.
On the first day of every week,
each of you should set something aside
according to his own means.
Did you notice Paul did not specify
a certain minimum amount?
And later,
he mentioned that Macedonian Christians
were in the poverty
yet they backed for the privilege of giving.
They were happy to give
even beyond their means
because they were giving to Jehovah.
Being poor meant
that they individually could not give much
and yet they understood
that giving materially
is an expression of our worship.
Many of you brothers and sisters
are like those in Macedonia.
You have very little
and yet we see your faith
by contributing generously
according to your circumstances.
No matter how small the amount might be,
you imitate our generous God Jehovah.
And you experience
what one sister described in a letter.
She wrote,
all these years
I have been unable to give
but small amounts of money
at the Kingdom Hall.
Yet she continued,
Jehovah God has given me back
much more than I have given.
Even our young children
can learn to set something aside
and give to Jehovah here
for more weeks.
We occasionally receive notes
and letters from these young ones
who want to give to Jehovah
and they tell us how they appreciate
what the organization is doing,
especially the videos.
This really touches our heart
and we can only imagine
how happy it must make Jehovah.
Jehovah loves us
forgiving the best that we have.
We values even our small contributions.
Even smaller nations do make a difference
and are noticed by Jehovah.
He sees our faith in action.
In the following video,
note what moved one couple
to greater acts of generosity.
When a disaster struck
in the north of the country,
we immediately answered the call for help.
Seeing our brothers and sisters
in need was heartbreaking.
But what really touched our heart
was the spirit of the local brothers and sisters.
They were like the Macedonians.
They didn't have much,
but they gave generously from the heart.
When we got home,
Madeline and I resolved to show
the same kind of spirit.
First, our appreciation
led us to review our contribution
to the worldwide work.
I've come up with this figure.
Is this right?
Yes.
That's just like Jehovah.
We looked for ways to be generous
to those around us.
We discovered that we had the means to give more,
so we didn't hold back.
And then our congregation was invited
to help with a special preaching campaign.
I think we could do a bit more.
Could we push ourselves a bit further?
I'd really like to.
It was within our power to help.
And that's exactly what we did.
I'm begging too much.
No, of course not.
Did you notice what role faith played
in this couple's giving?
For example,
they put their faith in Jehovah's promise
to care for them in times of need.
And so,
they sat down and reconsider
their ability to generously give.
Prayerfully, they decided on their contribution.
In line with our theme,
they set something aside.
Additionally,
they shared materially
with their brothers and sisters,
food items,
and a nice meal.
They realized what a blessing it is
to be used by Jehovah
in caring for others.
Brothers and sisters,
we live in the most exciting time in history
with never to be repeated opportunities
to demonstrate our faith.
It was Nepal compared this with a large door
that opened up.
Please think for a moment.
Has the door to activity opened for you
to learn a new language?
Or does it look more like the door
leads you to move to where the need is greater?
Did this symposium remind you of the door
that is open for you to receive training
at the School for Kingdom Evangelizers?
Or did it direct you to the door
for assisting with a theoretical building project?
And maybe this concluding part
has reminded all of us
of our privilege of generously supporting the Kingdom work
by making donations,
even if they are small.
What door is open to you
so that you are able to expand your ministry?
Don't feel bad if you hesitate to end up
this is normal,
and yet please,
do not delay entering unnecessarily.
Don't think you can always reach out later.
We all do not know what our life will be like tomorrow.
In other words,
the door to wonderful blessings
that is open today
might be close tomorrow.
So be courageous
and enter the door to activity in faith.
And like many of your brothers and sisters
who already made these steps in the past,
you will have no regrets.
Let us all demonstrate our faith
by doing all that we can
for our friend and God, Jehovah.
And we will enjoy a rich life now
and will be blessed with an ending life in the future.
Thank you, brothers,
for those practical suggestions
on expanding our activity.
Let's sing a song that reflects our desire
to do all we can in Jehovah's service.
Song number 84 is entitled
reaching out
that song number 84.